All right so here we have our next exercise for continuity.
It says use the formal definition of continuity to the tournament if the function is continues for the
following X values.
So you need to find if the function is continues when X equals negative 3 when X equals 2 1 x equals
6 and when X equals 4 and yes you do have to draw this.
You might be thinking Loys Why are you making me draw this over again.
I need to get used to it.
All right.
Don't just say oh let me look at it and kind of go over the answer in my head.
No please go ahead and draw your cartesian plane.
X and Y and then try to draw this graph the best that you can.
Doesn't have to be perfect.
It doesn't have to be exactly equal but you have to do the job.
Trust me I know these things because I've taught this class for a long time and the people that don't
draw the people that don't take notes.
Those are the people that do not do well in the class.
So go ahead and draw this one quickly and I'll let you pause the video so you can not only draw it but
use a formal definition of continuity to find if access continues at these x values.
All right so how do you do.
Let's see.
So we need to use the formal definition of continuity.
Remember that the formal definition of continuity.
We actually have a mnemonic for that which is the equals L.
Right we said driver's license and the way to remember this.
A driver's license is continuous because you don't have to renew it every day.
It's there for many many years.
So when you think of continuity of driver's license equals L and this mnemonic says that for a function
to be continuous at a certain point then the function number one needs to be defined.
Number two the limit must exist.
That means that the limit from the left and the right are equal and number three.
The definition of the function must be equal to the limit at that point.
So let's go ahead and figure this out for each of these.
So let's start with x equals negative 3.
Let's see number 1 if the function is defined so negative 3 is over here.
What is the y value corresponding to negative 3.
So it's not up here because this is an open circle so there is no y value here.
But if you look down there's no y value here either.
So it turns out that this function does function f of x is not defined for negative Threet because there
is no y value here and no y value here.
Therefore f of negative 3 is undefined.
This means that the first condition of continuity is not even met.
This means that this function already is not continuous for X equals negative 3
right.
So not defined not continuous.
We move on.
We don't have to check for anything else.
Let's go to this one here.
So let's see if f of two is defined.
So what is half 2.
So it turns out that f of 2 does have a Y value associated with it.
As you can see we have a shaded trickle so the y value is 3 right.
So a lot better.
This first condition is met.
Let's find the limit from the left and the right of X as x approaches to from the left.
So as we approach two from the left to overhear.
So we approach it from the left from the left.
It looks like the y value is going to be negative for the
now let's do the same thing but let's approach it from the right instead.
So limit of x.
Sorry I'm running out of space here.
As x approaches 2 from the right so to is over here.
And as we approach it from the right we approach from the right from the right from the right.
It looks like the y value is going to be 3 so y values 3.
So what do we have here.
We have the limit from the left as x approaches 2 is negative 4 and the limit from the right as x approaches
2 is 3.
So the limit from the left is different than the limit from the right.
That means remember that the limit does not exist.
So that means it's not continuous either.
All right.
Because this limit is different than this limit.
Right.
So the limit does not exist.
Our second condition is not true.
All right let's do another one over here.
When X equals six.
So first of all let's see if it is defined when X equals 6 so x equals 6 is over here as it defines.
Yes we do have a Y value over here.
And I forgot to put up a number here so let's do six.
All right so one X equals 6.
The y value is actually 6.
All right.
So the first condition is true.
Now let's check the limit from the left and from the right.
So we have a limit of half of X
as x approaches
6.
And let's start with the left sexers over here as we approach it from the left.
It looks like the y value is going to be 6.
All right that's good.
Now let's approach it from the right limit of X as x approaches 6 from the right
and let's see a six is over here as we approach it from the right.
It looks like the y value is going to be negative to.
OK so it looks like again the limit from the left which is six is different than the limit from the
right which is negative 2.
So because the limit from the left is different than the limit from the right we say that this is not
continuous either.
And market over here these two are different different than salaamed limit from the left.
Oops.
Is different than the limit from the right.
Remember this means different all right.
Different than.
All right well.
So that kind of sucks.
I mean the first three x values.
Neither of them are continuous.
Let's see the fourth one is which is X equals 4.
So let's check for our conditions.
By the way I'm putting this in case you don't know what it is.
It's just a semicolon to separate stuff.
That's pretty much it.
All right.
So let's do full four and see.
The function is defined for the input for so for was over here it definitely looks like we have a Y
value because the point is here and the y value is for nice.
Now let's go with the limit from the left.
So a limit of of X
as x approaches for from the left.
What would that be.
So again fours over here as we approach it from the left Uloom market by the way.
So as we approach it from the left it looks like the y value is going to be for nice.
Now it's approach it from the right
limit of IVAX
as x approaches 4 from the right.
So again the point is here so let's approach it from the right and see what the x value is going to
be it looks like it's going to be for Nice.
All right.
So our first condition is true.
We have a Y value for X-C calls for our second condition is true the limit exists because the limit
from the left is equal to the limit from the right both or for.
And finally we need to check if the definition is equal to the limit and it turns out it is.
So F or 4 equals for the y value when I plug in 4 is also 4.
But then the limit as x approaches 4 in general is also for.
Why.
Because the limit from the left equals the limit from the right and they both equal four.
So we can finally say that half of four is equal to the limit of f of x
as x approaches 4 in general.
All right.
Not from the left or the right.
We already found those since they're equal to each other.
The limit in general equals four.
So four four equals four and the limit of f of x x x approaches 4 also equals 4.
So these two are equal and we have that our function is continues at X equals 4.
So this one is content is all right.
That's pretty much it.
So don't forget your mnemonic driver's license equals all very important with it you can check your
three conditions definition limit from the left on the right and definition equals the limit in general
of the other.